>> LOOKING BACK IT WOULD HAVE
>> I THOUGHT USING ONE DEVICE
WOULD BE SIMPLER AND OBVIOUSLY
IT HASN'T WORKED OUT THAT WAY.
>> Woodruff: CALLING IT AN ACT
OF CONVENIENCE, HILLARY CLINTON
ADDRESSES HER USE OF PRIVATE
EMAIL WHILE SECRETARY OF STATE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, A
STANDOFF OVER IRAN, TWO LEADING
SENATORS ON THE WIDENING
POLITICAL RIFT OVER A NUCLEAR
DEAL.
PLUS, BANNED IN INDIA, WE TALK
WITH THE FILMMAKER BEHIND A
POWERFUL NEW DOCUMENTARY ON A
GANG ATTACK OF A WOMAN IN DELHI.
>> THIS IS A SOCIETY THAT TREATS
GIRLS AS UNEQUAL FROM THE DAY
THEY ARE BORN. THE
FAMED MANUSCRIPTS OF TIMBUKTU
FROM THE THREATS
>> Woodruff: AND,  SAVING THE
FAMED MANUSCRIPTS OF TIMBUKTU
FROM THE THREATS OF WAR,
SCHOLARS WORK TO REVIVE A
NATION'S PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
>> MALI IS DEFINITELY A POOR
COUNTRY WHEN IT COMES TO THE
BUDGET, BUT WHEN IT  COMES TO
CIVILIZATION, CULTURE AND
DIGNITY MALI IS A VERY RICH
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET WAS HIT
HARD TODAY BY NEW WORRIES THAT
INTEREST RATES ARE HEADED
HIGHER.
LAST MONTH'S STRONG JOBS REPORT
HAS FUELED FEARS THAT THE
FEDERAL RESERVE WILL ACT SOONER
RATHER THAN LATER TO RAISE
RATES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 332 POINTS TO CLOSE WELL
BELOW 17,700.
THE NASDAQ FELL 82 POINTS, AND
THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED 35.
THE UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA HAS
EXPELLED TWO STUDENTS OVER A
RACIST CHANT AT A FRATERNITY
EVENT.
SCHOOL PRESIDENT DAVID BOREN
SAID TODAY THEY WERE IDENTIFIED
AS LEADING THE CHANT.
HE DID NOT MAKE THEIR NAMES
PUBLIC, BUT DID SAY OTHERS MAY
FACE DISCIPLINE AS WELL.
THE UNIVERSITY HAS ALSO SHUT
DOWN ITS CHAPTER OF "SIGMA ALPHA
EPSILON."
MEMBERS HAVE UNTIL MIDNIGHT TO
REMOVE THEIR BELONGINGS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED TODAY FOR
BETTER TREATMENT OF AMERICANS
BURDENED WITH STUDENT DEBT.
HE LAID OUT A SERIES OF CHANGES
DURING A SPEECH AT GEORGIA TECH,
IN ATLANTA.
THEY CALL FOR LOAN SERVICES TO
BETTER INFORM BORROWERS ABOUT
RE-PAYMENT OPTIONS AND TO NOTIFY
THEM WHEN THEY'RE DELINQUENT,
AMONG OTHER THINGS.
THE PRESIDENT SAID THE SYSTEM
HAS TO WORK BETTER.
>> HIGHER EDUCATION HAS NEVER
BEEN MORE IMPORTANT.
BUT IT'S ALSO NEVER BEEN MORE
EXPENSIVE.
I BELIEVE THAT AMERICA IS NOT A
PLACE WHERE HIGHER EDUCATION IS
A PRIVILEGE THAT IS RESERVED FOR
THE FEW.
AMERICA NEEDS TO BE A PLACE
WHERE HIGHER EDUCATION HAS TO BE
AVAILABLE FOR EVERY SINGLE
PERSON WHO'S WILLING TO STRIVE
FOR IT, WHO'S WILLING TO WORK
FOR IT.
( APPLAUSE )
MORE THAN 40 MILLION AMERICANS
CURRENTLY CARRY STUDENT LOAN
DEBT.
IN MYANMAR, HUNDREDS OF RIOT
POLICE CRACKED DOWN TODAY ON
STUDENT PROTESTERS.
OFFICERS SWINGING BATONS CHARGED
INTO THE CROWDS, BEATING PEOPLE
AND ARRESTING MORE THAN 120.
THE CONFRONTATION PUT A SUDDEN
END TO A STAND-OFF, ABOUT 90
MILES NORTH OF YANGON, THE
FORMER CAPITAL.
THE PROTESTERS WERE TARGETING A
NEW EDUCATION LAW.
THEY SAY IT GIVES THE GOVERNMENT
TOO MUCH CONTROL OVER SCHOOLS
AND CURBS THEIR ACADEMIC
FREEDOM.
THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH
KOREA WAS DISCHARGED FROM A
SEOUL HOSPITAL TODAY, FIVE DAYS
AFTER BEING SLASHED ON THE FACE
AND ARM.
MARK LIPPERT NEEDED 80 STITCHES
TO CLOSE THE DEEP KNIFE WOUNDS.
DESPITE THAT CLOSE CALL, HE
SOUNDED UPBEAT TODAY AS CAMERAS
FLASHED AT A HOSPITAL NEWS
CONFERENCE.
>> I FEEL PRETTY DARN GOOD, ALL
THINGS CONSIDERED.
I MEAN IT WAS OBVIOUSLY A SCARY
INCIDENT.
BUT I'M WALKING, TALKING,
HOLDING MY BABY, HUGGING MY
WIFE, SO I JUST FEEL REALLY
GOOD.
>> Woodruff: LIPPERT'S ATTACKER
TURNED OUT TO BE AN
ANTI-U.S. ACTIVIST.
NORTH KOREA DENIED ANY
INVOLVEMENT, BUT IT DID CALL THE
ATTACK "A DESERVED PUNISHMENT"
FOR JOINT U.S. AND SOUTH KOREA
MILITARY DRILLS.
AND, THERE'S WORD TODAY THAT THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SPENT NEARLY A DECADE TRYING TO
CRACK THE CODING IN APPLE
I-PHONES AND I-PADS.
"THE INTERCEPT," AN
INVESTIGATIVE NEWS SITE, CITES
DOCUMENTS OBTAINED BY EDWARD
SNOWDEN AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY.
THEY INDICATE THE C.I.A. TRIED
TO BREAK INTO APPLE PRODUCTS AS
EARLY AS 2006.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF THE AGENCY WAS
EVER SUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPTS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
SECRETARY CLINTON SPEAKS OUT ON
HER PRIVATE EMAILS WHILE AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT;
A SENATE SHOWDOWN WITH THE WHITE
HOUSE OVER IRAN;
WHY INDIA BANNED A DOCUMENTARY
ABOUT A GANG RAPE;
AND PROTECTING ANCIENT
MANUSCRIPTS IN TIMBUKTU FROM THE
ELEMENTS AND THE THREATS OF WAR.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, FOR THE
FIRST TIME, HILLARY CLINTON
RESPONDED PUBLICLY TO GROWING
QUESTIONS OVER WHY SHE USED A
PRIVATE INTERNET SERVER AND
PERSONAL E-MAIL ADDRESS WHEN SHE
WAS SECRETARY OF STATE.
A QUICK REMINDER OF THE EVENTS
LEADING TO THIS:
IN JANUARY OF 2009 AN AIDE TO
FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON SET UP
A PRIVATE INTERNET SERVER AT OR
NEAR THE CLINTON'S NEW YORK
HOME.
SECRETARY CLINTON USED THAT
SERVER AND A PRIVATE EMAIL
ADDRESS DURING HER TIME AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT.
THIS YEAR, CLINTON'S STAFF HAS
HANDED OVER TO THE DEPARTMENT
55,000 PAGES OF EMAILS THAT THEY
SAY ARE THE ONLY ONES RELATED TO
HER GOVERNMENT WORK.
TODAY CLINTON INSISTED HER USE
OF A PRIVATE ACCOUNT WAS ABOVE
BOARD AND ONLY FOR CONVENIENCE.
>> WHEN I GOT TO WORK AS
SECRETARY OF STATE, I OPTED FOR
CONVENIENCE TO USE MY PERSONAL
EMAIL ACCOUNT, WHICH WAS ALLOWED
BY THE STATE DEPARTMENT, BECAUSE
I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE EASIER TO
CARRY JUST ONE DEVICE FOR MY
WORK AND FOR MY PERSONAL EMAILS
INSTEAD OF TWO.
LOOKING BACK, IT WOULD'VE BEEN
BETTER IF I'D SIMPLY USED A
SECOND EMAIL ACCOUNT AND CARRIED
A SECOND PHONE, BUT AT THE TIME,
THIS DIDN'T SEEM LIKE AN ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: CLINTON TOOK A
DOZEN QUESTIONS FROM REPORTERS.
ONE ASKED IF SHE DELETED ANY
GOVERNMENT-RELATED E-MAILS AND
HOW FAR SHE WENT TO MAKE SURE
ALL WORK-RELATED MATERIAL
SURVIVED.
>> MY DIRECTION TO CONDUCT THE
THOROUGH INVESTIGATION WAS TO
ERR ON THE SIDE OF PROVIDING
ANYTHING THAT COULD BE POSSIBLY
VIEWED AS WORK RELATED.
AND I THINK THAT WE HAVE MORE
THAN MET THE REQUESTS FROM THE
STATE DEPARTMENT.
THE SERVER CONTAINS PERSONAL
COMMUNICATIONS FROM MY HUSBAND
AND ME, AND I BELIEVE I HAVE MET
ALL OF MY RESPONSIBILITIES AND
THE SERVER WILL REMAIN PRIVATE.
>> Woodruff: FOR REACTION TO
SECRETARY CLINTON'S PRESS
CONFERENCE AND A LOOK AT HOW
THIS COULD AFFECT A POTENTIAL
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, WE ARE
JOINED NOW BY TWO POLITICAL
STRATEGISTS:
HILARY ROSEN, A DEMOCRATIC
CONSULTANT ANDNA
OF THE PUBLIC RELATIONS FIRM
S.K.D. KNICKERBOCKER.
AND MATTHEW DOWD, A REPUBLICAN
CONSULTANT, WHO HAS WORKED ON A
NUMBER OF POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS
INCLUDING GEORGE W BUSH'S RE-
ELECTION BID IN 2004.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
MATTHEW DOWD, WHAT DID YOU MAKE
OF SECRETARY CLINTON'S
EXPLANATION THAT THIS WAS DONE
OUT OF CONVENIENCE AND SHE FEELS
CONFIDENT THAT SHE'S TURNED OVER
MORE THAN ANY EMAIL THAT MIGHT
HAVE BEEN INTERPRETED AS HAVING
TO DO WITH HER GOVERNMENT WORK?
>> WELL, JUDY, FIRST OF ALL, SHE
ANSWERED SOME QUESTIONS BUT I
DON'T THINK SHE PUT A LID ON THE
CONTROVERSY.
I THINK THIS WILL ONLY EXPAND
AND GROW BASED ON THE COURSE OF
THIS.
PART OF THE PROBLEM IS IT'S NOT
THAT THE AMERICAN PUBLIC CARES
ANT THE E-MAILS, IT'S THAT THEY
HAVE AN UNBELIEVABLE AMOUNT OF
NEED FOR TRUSTED OFFICIALS
OFFICIALS AND POTENTIAL TRUST TO
THE UNITED STATES.
I THINK HILLARY CLINTON DID NOT
RESOLVE THAT TO THE SATISFACTION
OF MOST PEOPLE OUT THERE.
MAYBE TO DEMOCRATS WHO WILL
DEFEND HER REGARDLESS BUT SHE
HAS QUESTIONS YESTERDAY TO BE
ANSWERED AND ASKED OF HER
DIRECTLY.
I THINK CONVENIENCE IS NEVER A
GOOD EXCUSE FOR AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL TO SAY I DID IT OUT OF
CONVENIENCE, THAT'S NEVER A GOOD
EXCUSE FOR AN ELECTED OFFICIAL
TO SAY WHY THEY DID A CERTAIN
BEHAVIOR.
>> Woodruff: HILARY ROSEN, A
LOT MORE QUESTIONS TO BE
ANSWERED?
>> I THINK SHE HAD SOMETHING TO
BE ACCOMPLISHED TODAY WHICH WAS
SHE WAS NEVER GOING TO SATISFY
EVERYBODY, BUT COULD SHE ACHIEVE
A REASONABLE EXPLANATION THAT
MOST PEOPLE WOULD BE SATURDAYS
FADE WITH?
AND I THINK SHE ACHIEVED THAT.
IT WAS -- YOU KNOW, IF I HAD TO
DO IT OVER AGAIN, I WOULD DO IT
DIFFERENTLY.
YOU KNOW, THAT IS A BIG THING
FOR SOMEBODY TO SAY.
AND SECONDLY, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT REALLY NOW HAS 30,000
E-MAILS TO RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC
THAT WE'LL SEE WHAT'S IN THOSE
E-MAILS.
I THINK THE BALL IS KIND OF IN
THEIR COURT.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY IN THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC ACTUALLY
BELIEVES THAT ALL OF THEIR
E-MAILS SHOULD BE, YOU KNOW,
OPEN AND ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
MATTHEW DOWD?
AND HILLARY CLINTON'S
EXPLANATION THAT THIS PERSONAL
SERVER SHE AND PRESIDENT CLINTON
HAS IS SECURE AND WHAT SHE DID
WAS ABOVE BOARD EVEN IF SHE, IN
RETROSPECT, THINKS MAYBE SHE
SHOULD HAVE DONE ATE DIFFERENT
WAY?
>> WELL, THE PROBLEM SHE HAS,
WHICH IS THE WHOLE PART OF THE
PUBLIC THAT COMES IN WITH A LACK
OF TRUST, IS SHE'S BASICALLY
SAYING, TRUST ME, I DID THE
RIGHT THING.
TRUST ME, WE DID IT IN A SECURE
MANNER.
TRUST ME, WE RELEASED ALL THE
E-MAILS YOU NEED TO ACTUALLY
SEE.  TRUST ME ON THIS.
SO THERE'S NO EVIDENCE ANYBODY'S
SEEN THAT THE COMPUTER AND THE
SERVER WAS HOUSED IN A SECURE
MANNER.
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT WE CAN
TRUST THE FACT THAT HERE ARE THE
E-MAILS YOU CAN SEE AND CAN'T
SEE.  I THINK, IN THE END, THE
PROBLEM SHE HAS AND IT'S PART OF
THE PROBLEM WITH HER CANDIDACY
OF PRESIDENT IF SHE RUNS IS IS
THIS A THROWBACK TO THE '90s?
ARE WE GOING TO BACK TO THE
'90s WHERE WE CONSTANTLY HAVE
TO ASK AND RE-ASK QUESTIONS AND
ARE WE GETTING INFORMATION THAT
WE'RE EXPECTED TO GET, OR IS
THIS A CAMPAIGN ABOUT THE 21s
21st CENTURY?
THAT'S THE PROBLEM OF THIS ISSUE
WITH HER IS IT MAKES VOTERS FEEL
LIKE WE'RE GOING BACK AGAIN TO
THE '90s AND A TIME WE WOULD
RATHER LEAVE BEHIND.
>> Woodruff: I'M SEE AGO
REPORT THAT SAYS JEB BUSH WHEN
SHE WAS GOVERNOR OF FLORIDA USE
THE ADD PERSONAL SERVER AND
STILL HAS IT.
>> AND HE SELF-SELECTED THE
E-MAILS HE RELEASED TO THE
PUBLIC.
SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THIS IN A
CAMPAIGN CONTEXT, PEOPLE WILL
SEE THIS AS POLITICS.
FOR THE MOST PART, WHAT HILLARY
CLINTON NEEDS TO CONVINCE PEOPLE
OF IS AS SECRETARY OF STATE SHE
DID AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF GOOD
AND IS TRUSTWORTHY.
I THINK MATTHEW IS RIGHT TO T
DEGREE.
HAVING SAID THAT, I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY WIL WILL HAVE A DIFFERET
STANDARD FOR EVERYBODY THAT
COMES OUT OF PUBLIC LIFE.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER EXCERPT
FROM SECRETARY CLINTON, THIS WAS
IN ANSWER TO A QUESTION THAT HOW
CAN THE PUBLIC TRUST THAT SHE
DIDN'T DELETE E-MAILS THAT WERE
PROFESSIONAL BUT UNFLATTERING TO
HER?
HERE'S HOW SHE ANSWERED THAT.
>> YOU WOULD HAVE TO ASK THAT
QUESTION TO EVERY SINGLE FEDERAL
EMPLOYEE BECAUSE THE WAY THE
SYSTEM WORKS, THE FEDERAL
EMPLOYEE, THE INDIVIDUAL,
WHHER ETTHEY HAVE ONE DEVICE,
TWO DEVICES, THREE DEVICES, HOW
MANY ADDRESSES, THEY MAKE THE
DECISION.
SO EVEN IF YOU HAVE A
WORK-RELATED DEVICE WITH A
WORK-RELATED .gov ACCOUNT YOU
CHOOSE WHAT GOES ON THAT.
THAT IS THE WAY OUR SYSTEM
WORKS.
SO WE TRUST AND COUNT ON THE
JUDGMENT OF THOUSANDS MAYBE
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE TO MAKE THOSE
DECISIONS.
>> Woodruff: MATTHEW DOWD,
WHAT ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK SHE'S RIGHT IN
THAT FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HAVE TO
BE HELD TO A CERTAIN STANDARD ON
HOW THEY CONDUCT PERSONAL
INTERNET, BUT THOUSANDS OF
EMPLOYEES AREN'T THE LIKELY
CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT TO HAVE
THE UNITED STATES, SO I'M HOPE
SHEG SEES HERSELF AS HOLDING HER
SELF TO A HIGH STANDARD IN THE
MIDST OF THIS IN THE COURSE OF
WHAT OFFICE SHE'S POTENTIALLY
TRYING TO SEEK, FIRST.
SECONDLY, THE IDEA THAT WEDGE
POINT FINGERS AND SAY, WELL, IF
I DID WHAT EVERYBODY ELSE DOES,
JEB BUSH AND THOUSANDS OF
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES, I AM HOPING
HET STANDARD WE HOLD TO A LEADER
THAT WE'LL ELECT TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
IS A MUCH HIGHER STANDARD THAN
JUST THE BARE BONES, JUST THE
BASIC THINGS I DID WHAT
EVERYBODY ELSE DID.
>> Reporter: DOES THAT MEAN
THAT A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
SHOULD BE EXPECTED, HILARY
ROSEN, TO RELEASE ALL THEIR
EMEALS?
IS THAT THE POINT WE'VE REACHED?
>> I DON'T KNOW, AND I THINK THE
POINT THAT MATTHEW IS MAKING IS
A GOOD ONE IN THAT WE WANT OUR
ELECTED OFFICIALS TO BE ABOVE
REPROACH.
BUT NOW WE HAVE A SITUATION
WHERE WE CAN'T UNDO THE PAST,
AND, SO, THE ONLY THING THAT
WILL SATISFY SOME PEOPLE -- AND
IT WON'T SATISFY EVERYBODY -- IS
IF HER SERVER WERE RELEASED.
IF ALL OF HER PERSONAL E-MAILS
WERE RELEASED.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
THEN EVERYBODY -- THE
REPUBLICANS WOULD START SAYING,
OH, I'M SURE SHE DELETED A BUNCH
BEFORE SHE RELEASED THEM TO THE
PUBLIC.
THIS WILL NEVER END AND I THINK
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS SEE WHAT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT RELEASES,
THE ONUS IS ON THEM.
THERE WILL BE AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF INFORMATION ABOUT HER TERM AS
SECRETARY OF STATE AND WHEN THE
CAMPAIGN STARTS, LET'S LISTEN TO
HILLARY CLINTON AND HER SENSE OF
ACCOUNTABILITY TO THE PUBLIC ON
A BROAD OF THINGS AS EWELL AS
OTHER CANDIDATES.
>> Woodruff: NO MATTER WHAT
SHE RELEASES AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT PUTS OUT, THERE ARE
STILL GOING TO BE QUESTIONS OF
SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> WELL, I THINK, YEAH, THAT IS
TRUE TO A DEGREE, BUT SHE'S ALSO
PUT HERSELF IN A BOX TO A
DEGREE, SHE'S CREATED THIS
PROBLEM.
PART OF THE REASON WHY SHE'S IN
THIS SITUATION WHERE PEOPLE HAVE
A HAIR TRIGGER REACTION TO STUFF
LIKE THIS IS BECAUSE THERE HAS
BEEN A TENDENCY ON THE PART OF
THE CLINTONS TO NOT ALWAYS BE
TRANSPARENT, TO NOT ALWAYS BE
OPEN, TO NOT ALWAYS ANSWER
DIRECTLY THE QUESTION TO, NOT
ALWAYS REVEAL THE INFORMATION
PEOPLE ARE ASKING FOR.
SO PART OF THIS IS SELF-CREATED.
I WOULD THINK FROM AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL WHO UNDERSTANDS THE
BAGGAGE SHE COMES TO THE
POTENTIAL OFFICE WITH, SHE
UNDERSTANDS IT AND WOULD
OVERREGULATE OR BE
OVERTRANSPARENT.
THE PROBLEM I THINK PEOPLE HAVE
IS IT DOES NOT -- TRANSPARENCY
AND OPENNESS DOES NOT FEEL AS IF
IT'S AN AUTHENTIC PART OF
HILLARY CLINTON'S DNA.
>> YEAH, I THINK MOST PEOPLE
DON'T FEEL THAT WAY.
I THINK MOST PEOPLE SEE A WOMAN
WHO IS WORKING HER HEART OUT,
WHO FOR THE LAST WEEK, WHEN
EVERYBODY WAS TALKING ABOUT
E-MAILS, SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT
THE PLIGHT OF WOMEN AND GIRLS
AROUND THE WORLD AND WHETHER
WE'VE MADE ENOUGH PROGRESS AND
WHAT ELSE NEEDS TO BE DONE
INCLUDING IN THIS COUNTRY AND I
THINK WHAT WE REALLY HAVE IS A
FAIRLY SERIOUS KIND OF POLLSY
MOCK IN SOME RESPECTS THAT SEES
IN AS EXTRA NOISE AND I THINK
THIS WILL BE SOMEWHAT OF A
CHALLENGE FOR HER IN A CAMPAIGN,
CAN SHE SEPARATE LEGITIMATE
QUESTIONS FROM THE PUBLIC AND
REPORTSERS FROM WHAT WILL
CONTINUE TO BE A REPUBLICAN
WITCH HUNT FOR HER.
>> Woodruff: ONE THING THAT
CAME UP TODAY WAS A QUESTION
ABOUT MONEY THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION HAS TAKEN FROM
FOREIGN COUNTRIES WHO HAVE
TREATED WOMEN BADLY H AND IN
SOME CASES ABUSED WOMEN,
SAUDI ARABIA, SECRETARY CLINTON
SAID SHE AND THE FOUNDATION HAVE
BEEN VERY OPEN ABOUT WHAT THEY
DO.
WHERE DO YOU SEE THAT ISSUE.
>> I THINK THAT ISSUE YOU'RE
BRINGING UP IS A BIGGER ISSUE
THAN THE EMAIL ISSUE.
ONE, I'M AN INDEPENDENT, SO THI.
SECONDLY, THE "NEW YORK TIMES,"
NO REPUBLICAN NEWS ROOM BROKE
THIS ABOUT THE E-MAILS.
THE IDEA THAT SHE WALKS AROUND
THE WORLD AND CLAIMS I'M FOR
WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT AND WANT
WOMEN'S RIGHTS, AND SHE IS DOING
A LOT, BUT SIMULTANEOUS THE
COUNTRIES WITH THE WORST RECORDS
ON WOMEN'S RIGHTS ARE GIVING
LARGE CONTRIBUTIONS TO A
FOUNDATION SHE AND HER HUSBAND
ARE A PART OF IS A HUGE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: HILARY ROSEN, ONE
FINAL COMMENT.
>> ONE QUICK THING.
FIRST OF ALL, THE REASON WE CAN
EVEN JUDGE THE COUNTRIES IS THE
TOTAL TRANSPARENCY OF THE
CLINTON FOUNDATION UNLIKE OTHER
FOUNDATIONS, THEY'VE LISTED
THEIR DONORS.
SECONDLY, SAUDI ARABIA IS A GOOD
EXAMPLE.
WHEN HILLARY CLINTON WAS
SECRETARY OF STATE, SHE ISSUED
THE MOST SCATHING REPORT ON
SCRAIBD'S TREATMENT OF WOMEN
THAT HAD EVER BEEN ISSUED BY THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT EVER,
AND SAUDI ARABIA WAS A
CONTRIBUTE TORE THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION.
WHAT SHE SAID TODAY IS THEY KNOW
WHERE I STAND, IT WON'T CHANGE
ME, IT NEVER HAS OR WILL.
IF THEY WANT TO GIVE MONEY TO
SAVE PEOPLE'S LES IIVN AFRICA OR
HAITI, THAT'S OKAY WITH ME.
>> Woodruff: HILARY ROSEN AND
MATTHEW DOWD, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANKS.
YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO THE
LETTER THAT'S WIDENING THE GAP
BETWEEN THE WHITE HOUSE
AND CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS
OVER THE IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS.
THE WAR OF WORDS ONLY HEATED UP
TODAY.
>> Woodruff: SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL SHOWED NO
SIGN OF BACKING DOWN TODAY.
INSTEAD, HE DEFENDED THE LETTER
DRAFTED BY FRESHMAN REPUBLICAN
TOM COTTON, OF ARKANSAS, AND
SIGNED BY MCCONNELL AND 45 OTHER
G.O.P. COLLEAGUES.
IT DECLARED ANY NUCLEAR DEAL
WITH IRAN THAT LACKS
CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL WOULD BE
SOLELY AN "EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT"
BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND
ATOLAYLAH KHAMENEI, IRAN'S
SUPREME LEADER.
AND, IT WENT ON TO WARN:
"THE NEXT PRESIDENT COULD REVOKE
SUCH AN EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT WITH
THE STROKE OF A PEN AND FUTURE
CONGRESSES COULD MODIFY THE
TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT AT ANY
TIME."
COTTON ELABORATED IN AN
INTERVIEW  WITH A.B.C. NEWS.
>> I'M TRYING TO STOP IRAN FROM
GETTING A NUCLEAR WEAPON, TODAY,
TEN YEARS FROM NOW, TWENTY YEARS
FROM NOW, AND THE LEADERSHIP OF
IRAN NEEDS TO KNOW IF THE
CONGRESS DOESN'T APPROVE THE
DEAL, CONGRESS IS NOT GOING TO
ACCEPT THE DEAL.
>> Woodruff: THE MOVE GOT A
DOUBLE-BARRELED RESPONSE FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE AND DEMOCRATS ON
CAPITOL HILL.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN, A FORMER
LONG-TIME SENATOR, DENOUNCED THE
LETTER IN A LENGTHY STATEMENT
LAST NIGHT.
HE SAID IT WAS: "BENEATH THE
DIGNITY OF AN INSTITUTION I
REVERE."
AND, HE CONTINUED: "THIS LETTER
IGNORES TWO CENTURIES OF
PRECEDENT AND THREATENS TO
UNDERMINE THE ABILITY OF ANY
FUTURE AMERICAN PRESIDENT,
WHETHER DEMOCRAT OR REPUBLICAN,
TO NEGOTIATE WITH OTHER NATIONS
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES."
THIS MORNING, ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT
DICK DURBIN PICKED UP WHERE
BIDEN LEFT OFF.
>> WE DON'T HAVE AN AGREEMENT!
WE'RE DAYS AWAY FROM
UNDERSTANDING WHETHER THERE'S A
POSSIBILITY OF AN AGREEMENT.
AND YET, THESE 47 SENATORS HAVE
BASICALLY SAID DON'T WASTE YOUR
TIME.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO ACCEPT IT.
>> Woodruff: AND THE IRANIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER, JAVAD ZARIF,
CHARGED THE LETTER WAS PART OF A
CAMPAIGN TO UNDERMINE THE
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> IT IS A PROPAGANDA PLOY AND
HAS NO LEGAL VALUE.
IT SHOWS HOW CONCERNED THEY ARE.
>> Woodruff: THE LEST ATDEADLINE
>> Woodruff: AS THE VERBAL
BATTLE LINES ARE DRAWN, A NEW TV
AD LOOKS TO CONJURE FEAR OF A
POTENTIAL IRANIAN NUCLEAR ATTACK
IN THE UNITED STATES.
THE GROUP BEHIND THE AD RUN BY
THREE FORMER SENATORS AIMS TO
TORPEDO THE DEAL WITH THE LATEST
DEADLINE FOR THE IRAN NUCLEAR
TALKS NOW JUST THREE WEEKS AWAY.
WE TURN NOW TO BOTH A SENATE
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRAT,
STARTING WITH JOHN THUNE OF
SOUTH DAKOTA WHO'S CHAIRMAN OF
THE SENATE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE.
SENATOR THUNE, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
LET ME FIRST ASK YOU ABOUT WHAT
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN SAID IN HIS
STATEMENT THAT THIS IGNORES --
THIS LETTER IGNORES TWO
CENTURIES OF PRECEDENT AND
THREATENS THE ABILITY OF ANY
AMERICAN PRESIDENT IN THE FUTURE
TO NEGOTIATE WITH A FOREIGN POW
SPHWHER.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT'S A VERY
DIFFERENT PLACE THAN THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS WHEN HE WAS A
SENATOR WHEN SHE WAS SERVING
WITH US IN THE SENATE AND
CHAIRING THE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE, HE HAD A VERY
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THAT ISSUE.
HE WAS PROFOUNDLY INTERESTED IN
MAKING SURE THE SENATE PRESERVED
IT'S CONSTITUTIONAL ROLE WHEN IT
COMES TO IMPORTANT TREATIES AND
AGREEMENTS.
WHAT HE'S SAYING TODAY IS
MARKEDLY DIFFERENT FROM ANYTHING
HE SAID WHEN HE WAS SERVING AS
UNITED STATES SENATOR AND
OBVIOUSLY I THINK HE HAS A
DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW TODAY,
BUT WE BELIEVE THAT CONGRESS AS
A CO-EQUAL BRAN.
OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT HAS
TRADITIONALLY WITH THE SENATE
DEALT WITH RATIFICATION OFF THE
TREATIES BE HEARD IN THIS
PROCESS AND HAVE A VOICE AND I
WOULD HOPE THE PRESIDENT AND
VICE PRESIDENT WOULD AGREE WITH
THAT.
>> Woodruff: HE POINTS OUT THE
VAST MAJORITY OF INTERSECTIONAL
AGREEMENTS TAKE EFFECT WITHOUT
CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL AND WE'VE
LOOKED AT IT AND IT'S SOMETHING
LIKE 95%.
SO THIS IS REALLY NOT DIFFERENT
AT ALL, IS IT, FROM WHAT'S
NORMAL?
>> WELL, IT'S PRETTY DIFFERENT.
IF YOU LOOK AT MOST
CONSEQUENTIAL AGREEMENT, I'M
TALKING NUCLEAR ARMS, AND THIS
IS A NUCLEAR ARMS DEAL THAT HAS
TREMENDOUS RAMIFICATION FOR THE
UNITED STATES AND THE WORLD,
THIS HAS HUGE IMPACTS AND
CONSEQUENCES ALL OF WHICH I
THINK NEED TO BE CAREFULLY
CONTEMPLATED AND THE CONCERN
MANY OF US AS MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS HAS IS THE
ADMINISTRATION MAY BE ENTERING
INTO A BAD DEAL AND WE THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THERE BE THE
VOICE OF THE SENATE BE HEARD IN
THAT PROCESS.
NOW, THERE IS A BILL INTRODUCED
HERE THAT I THINK HAS 65
CO-SPONSORS THAT WOULD REQUIRE A
VOTE BY THE SENATE IF ANY DEAL
IS ENTERED INTO BY THE
ADMINISTRATION.
SO THERE'S DEMOCRATS' SUPPORT
FOR THAT AS WELL.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT AS A
CONSTITUTIONING PREROGATIVE, IF
YOU LOOK AT MAJOR DEALS IN
HISTORY -- I'M TALKING 22,
SOMETIMES WE'VE HAD NUCLEAR ARMS
AGREEMENTS, SOMETIMES SUBJECT TO
SENATE RAFTFICATION.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT A COMMENT FROM FELLOW
REPUBLICAN SUSAN COLLINS AND
OTHERS INCLUDING BOB CORKER
DECLINED TO SIGN THE LETTER.
SENATOR COLLINS SAID SHE DIDN'T
THINK THE AYATOLLAH WOULD PAY
ATTENTION TO A LETTER FROM
SENATORS AND THINKS IT'S MORE
APPROPRIATE TO SAY THIS TO THE
PRESIDENT DIRECTLY.
>> AND WE HAVE COLLEAGUES IN
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT PLACES ON
THIS.
SENATOR CORKER IS NEGOTIATING
WITH DEMOCRATS ON THE
LEGISLATION WHICH BY THE WAY THE
PRESIDENT HAS THREATENED TO VETO
THE LEGISLATION THAT REQUIRE
THIS BE SUBJECTED TO A VOTE IN
THE CONGRESS.
BUT I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING
IN ALL THIS IS THA
ADMINISTRATION IS NOT DISPUTING
THE FACTS OF THE LETTER.
NOBODY IS SAYING THE LETTER IS
FACTUALLY WRONG.
THE POINT THAT IT MAKES IS THAT
THIS DEAL ISN'T BINDING ON
FUTURE ADMINISTRATIONS AND THERE
ARE LAWS, THAT CONGRESS IMPOSE
THE SANCTION AND CONGRESS WOULD
HAVE TO LIFT THE SANCTION ALSO.
THAT TAKES CONGRESSIONAL ACTION.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION, YOU'VE GOT
A DEAL BASICALLY THAT IS AGREED
TO FOR AS LONG AS THIS PRESIDENT
IS IN OFFICE AND I THINK THAT'S
THE POINT THAT PEOPLE ACROSS THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE PROBABLY NEED
TO UNDERSTAND.
>> Woodruff: JUST QUICKLY, THE
OTHER POINT WE'RE HEARING FROM
SENATORS IS THAT THIS DEAL -- OR
IF THEY ARE ABLE TO NEGOTIATE
IT, THIS DEAL IS THE BEST CHANCE
TO WORK SOMETHING OUT WITH IRAN
AND TO TORPEDO THIS DEAL MEANS
IRAN CAN BUILD UP ITS NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
>> WELL, I DON'T TAKE THAT HAS A
PREMISE.
FRANKLY, I THINK THAT THE
DEAL -- A BAD DEAL ALLOWS THEM
TO CONTINUE TO ENRICH AND IT'S
JUST A QUESTION OF WHEN.
IT'S NOT A MATTER OF IF.
AND I THINK WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PREVENT IS A DEAL THAT WOULD
ALLOW THEM TO HAVE A NUCLEAR
CAPABILITY IN THE FIRST PLACE
AND CERTAINLY ONE THAT HAS A SUN
SET ON IT WHICH THIS DEAL DOES.
SO, YOU KNOW, WE THINK WE'RE
HEADED IN THE WRONG DIRECTION,
WE'RE HEADED TOWARD A BAD DEAL
AND FRANKLY I THINK A LOT OF
PEOPLE AND THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
SAID NO DEAL IS A BAD DEAL.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR JOHN
THUNE OF SOUTH DAKOTA, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: NOW CONNECTICUT
SENATOR CHRIS MURPHY.
SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR TALKING
WITH US.
WHAT WE HEARD FROM SENATOR THUNE
IS THE REASON IT'S SO IMPORTANT
TO HAVE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL
FOR THIS NUCLEAR DEAL IS IT IS
NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND HAS
RAMIFICATION FORCE AN ENTIRE,
IMPORTANT REGION OF THE WORLD.
>> WELL, THIS IS AN IMPORTANT AS
IT GETS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT PREVENTING
IRAN FROM OBTAIN AGO NUCLEAR
WEAPON AND PERHAPS STOPPING THE
ENTIRE MIDDLE EAST FROM BECOMING
A NUCLEAR REGION.
SO ALL OF US ARE TAKING THIS
VERY SERIOUSLY.
THAT'S WHY MANY OF US ARE SO
CONCERNED ABOUT THESE ONGOING
EFFORTS TO UNDERMINE THE
NEGOTIATIONS WHICH MANY OF US
BELIEVE WILL ULTIMATELY GET TO
WHERE WE ALL WANT TO GET TO
WHICH IS AN IRAN THAT IS
DIVORCED FROM ANY NUCLEAR
AMBITIONS.
THERE WILL BE A TIME AND A PLACE
FOR CONGRESS TO WEIGH IN.
BUT THAT TIME AND PLACE IS AFTER
A DEAL IS AGREED UPON.
CONGRESS WILL ALWAYS HAVE THE
ABILITY TO DEFUND THAT DEAL, TO
CANCEL IT OUT THROUGH
LEGISLATION, BUT LET'S NOT
UNDERMINE NEGOTIATIONS BECAUSE
ALL OF US AGREE THAT THE BETTER
PATH TO STOP IRAN FROM GETTING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON IS A NEGOTIATED
SETTLEMENT WRATH THAN A MILITARY
OPTION WHICH WOULD BE PERHAPS
OUR ONLY OPTION SHOULD THESE
NEGOTIATIONS FAIL.
>> Woodruff: AS YOU KNOW, THEY
MAKE THE POINT THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A COUNTRY THAT HAS
A STATE-SPONSORED TERRORISM, A
COUNTRY THAT HAS BEEN A DIRECT
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES, ALL
THE MORE REASON, THEY SAY, WHY
IT SHOULDN'T BE JUST AN
EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENT AND ANOTHER COUNTRY.
>> WELL, WE HAVE A LONG HISTORY
OF THIS PRESIDENCY OF OURS BEING
ABLE TO ENTER INTO EXECUTIVE
AGREEMENTS, LITERALLY HUNDREDS
AND HUNDREDS OF THEM OVER THE
COURSE OF OUR COUNTRY'S HISTORY.
CONGRESS ALWAYS HAS THE ABILITY
TO WEIGH IN ON THAT AGREEMENT.
SO, AGAIN, I THINK THE POINT
THAT THEY'RE MAKING IS NOT LOST
ON MANY OF US, THAT CONGRESS
SHOULD HAVE A SAY, BUT WHAT THE
REPUBLICANS ARE DOING HERE ARE
TRYING TO UNDERMINE THE
NEGOTIATIONS AND STOP THEM IN
THEIR TRACKS BEFORE A FINAL
PRODUCT IS EVEN COMPLETED.
THAT IS LARGELY UNPRECEDENTED IN
THE HISTORY OF THIS COUNTRY, AND
I JUST THINK ABOUT WHAT WOULD
HAVE BEEN SAID OF DEMOCRATS IF
IN THE LEADUP TO THE IRAQ WAR WE
HAD SENT A LETTER TO SADDAM
HUSSEIN DRAWING AN ISSUE IN
WHICH OUR PRESIDENT WAS
CONDUCTED NEGOTIATIONS OVER THE
FRIEWCH OF THEIR WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION PROGRAMS.
THIS WOULD BE HUGELY DIVISIVE.
THERE WILL BE A TIME AND PLACE
FOR US TO TALK ABOUT THIS
AGREEMENT BUT WHY UNDERMINE
NEGOTIATIONS WHEN YOU WILL HAVE
A CHANCE AS THE UNITED STATES
CONGRESS TO WEIGH IN ON THE
STEEL ONCE THE NEGOTIATIONS ARE
FINISHED.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR THAT GOES
TO THE OTHER POINT THEY'RE MAKE
WIG IS SINCE A DEAL THAT DOESN'T
HAVE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL CAN
BE UNDONE BY THE NEXT PRESIDENT,
CAN BE CHANGED BY THE NEXT
CONGRESS, IT DOESN'T HAVE THE
FORCE OF A TREATY, OF SOMETHING
THAT IS APPROVED BY THE
CONGRESS.
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
TO NOTE, ALTHOUGH WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE CONFINES OF THIS
AGREEMENT ARE, THAT IT'S GOING
TO LOOK VERY DIFFERENT THAN
TREATIES, TREATIES BINDING TWO
NATIONS TO SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR
SETS OF OBLIGATIONS.
THIS IS VERY DIFFERENT IN THAT
THE VAST MAJORITY OF OBLIGATIONS
IN THIS TREATY ARE GOING TO BE
ON IRAN.
OUR OBLIGATION WILL SIMPLY BE TO
RESEND THE OUTSET TEMPORARILY
THE SET OF SANCTIONS WE'VE
IMPOSED.
IT DOESN'T RISE TO THE LEVEL OF
A TREATY OBLIGATION.
THE IDEA THAT THE NEXT PRESIDENT
WOULD WALK AWAY FROM AN
AGREEMENT THAT TOPS IRAN FROM
GETTING A NUCLEAR WEAPON IN A
VERIFIABLE WAY IS RIDICULOUS.
NO PRESIDENT REPUBLICAN OR
DEMOCRAT WILL WALK AWAY FROM
THAT AGREEMENT IF IT'S WORKING
AND IT IS NOT TRUE THAT
EXECUTIVE AGREEMENTS JUST
AUTOMATICALLY EXPIRE AT THE END
OF THAT PRESIDENT'S TERM.
THEY CONTINUE ON, AND I THINK
YOU WOULD BE COMPROMISING
LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF EXECUTIVE
AGREEMENTS THAT WE LIVE BY TODAY
BY THE SUGGESTION THAT AS SOON
AS ONE PRESIDENT IS OUT OF
OFFICE THEY JUST DISAPPEAR INTO
THIN AIR.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR CHRIS
MURPHY OF CONNECTICUT, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: FOR A DIFFERENT
TAKE ON IRAN, TOMORROW NIGHT ON
THE NEWSHOUR, SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JANE ARRAF'S
INTERVIEW WITH A KEY ALLY OF THE
UNITED STATES AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, THE
PRESIDENT OF IRAQI KURDISTAN,
MARZOUD BARZANI.
THE LEADER TELLS ARRAF HE'S NOT
GETTING ENOUGH WEAPONS FROM THE
U.S. AND WELCOMES IRAN'S HELP.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE A
PRINCIPLE, WHEREVER WE CAN
STRIKE THE ISLAMIC STATE WE ARE
NOT GOING TO HOLD BACK AND
WHOEVER WILL TAKE PART AND HELP
US ATTACK THE ISLAMIC STATE WE
WILL THANK THEM.
RIGHT NOW, I DON'T SHARE THAT
CONCERN IF YOU ARE ASKING ME
ABOUT HELPING TO FIGHT AND
DEFEAT I.S.
AT HWHAPPENS AFTER THAT WE CAN'T
PREDICT.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO INDIA, AND A
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT A HORRIFIC
EVENT IN THE COUNTRY'S RECENT
PAST.
THE GOVERNMENT THERE DOESN'T
WANT CITIZENS TO WATCH THE FILM,
AND HAS BANNED ITS AIRING.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> WE WANT JUSTICE!
WE WANT JUSTICE!
>> Brown: IT'S A NOW INFAMOUS
INCIDENT THAT GENERATED MASS
PROTESTS AND STAINED INDIA'S
INTERNATIONAL IMAGE.
A 23-YEAR-OLD MEDICAL STUDENT,
JYOTI SINGH, WAS GANG-RAPED ON
THIS BUS IN SOUTH DELHI IN 2012.
SHE DIED DAYS LATER, AND NOW,
HER STORY IS THE SUBJECT OF
A B.B.C. DOCUMENTARY, "INDIA'S
DAUGHTER."
>> ACCORDING TO THE LATEST
GOVERNMENT FIGURES, A WOMAN IS
RAPED IN INDIA EVERY 20 MINUTES.
BUT MOST RAPES ARE UNREPORTED.
THIS RAPE LED TO UNPRECEDENTED
PROTESTS ERUPTING ACROSS INDIA.
THE SILENCE HAS BEEN BROKEN.
>> Brown: THE DOCUMENTARY HAD
ITS U.S. PREMIERE IN NEW YORK
LAST NIGHT, AND IS ALREADY
AIRING IN BRITAIN, BUT NOT IN
INDIA.
THE INDIAN GOVERNMENT HAS BANNED
THE FILM, SAYING THE PRODUCERS
NEGOINTERVIEW ONE OF THE SUSPECN
PRISON, AND THAT HIS STATEMENTS
ARE "AN AFFRONT TO THE DIGNITY
OF WOMEN."
THE SUSPECT, MUKESH SINGH, WAS
DRIVING THE BUS, AND IS ONE OF
FOUR MEN CURRENTLY ON DEATH ROW
FOR THE CRIME.
IN THE DOCUMENTARY, HE APPEARS
UNREPENTANT, AND UNAFFECTED.
>> ( translated ): A DECENT GIRL
WON'T ROAM AROUND AT 9:00 AT
NIGHT.
A GIRL IS FAR MORE RESPONSIBLE
FOR RAPE THAN A BOY.
THE DEFENDANTS' DEFENSE LAWYERS
VOICE SIMILAR OPINIONS.
>> IN OUR SOCIETY, WE NEVER
ALLOW GIRLS TO COME OUT FROM THE
HOUSE AFTER 6:30 OR 7:30 OR 8:30
IN THE EVENING WITH ANY UNKNOWN
PERSON.
>> Brown: BUT JYOTI SINGH'S
MOTHER IS INDIGNANT AT SUCH
TALK, AND SAYS IT SYMBOLIZES THE
INJUSTICE THAT SO MANY INDIAN
WOMEN FACE.
>> ( translated ): WHENEVER
THERE'S A CRIME, THE GIRL IS
BLAMED, "SHE SHOULD NOT GO OUT,
SHE SHOULDN'T ROAM AROUND SO
LATE OR WEAR SUCH CLOTHES."
IT'S THE BOYS WHO SHOULD BE
ACCUSED AND ASKED WHY THEY DO
THIS!
THEY SHOULDN'T DO THIS!
>> Brown: THAT KIND OF ANGER AND
FRUSTRATION SPARKED MASS
PROTESTS AFTER THE SINGH RAPE,
AIMED AT THE GOVERNMENT'S
PERCEIVED TOLERANCE OF VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN.
THREE YEARS LATER, OCCASIONAL
PROTESTS CONTINUE, AND THE
DOCUMENTARY'S DEBUT HAS PUT THE
SINGH CASE BACK IN THE
SPOTLIGHT.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS HER
DOCUMENTARY, IS FILMMAKER,
LESLIE ODWIN.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GIVEN THE HIGH RATES OF RAPE IN
INDIA, I WONDER WHY DO YOU THINK
THIS WAS THE INCIDENT THAT SO
GALVANIZED PEOPLE?
WELL, I THINK THAT A DAM WILL
BUST AT A CERTAIN POINT AND MANY
IN INDIA ASK THAT QUESTION, EVEN
TODAY, WHY THAT PARTICULAR GANG
RAPE.
THERE HAVE BEEN SO MANY VIOLENT
ONES.
THERE WAS ONE ONLY FOUR WEEKS
AGO WHICH WAS ARGUABLY AS IF NOT
MORE VIOLENT.
I THINK THAT, LITERALLY, THE
ANGER IN PEOPLE AT KNOWING HOW
MUCH THE ISSUE IS SUPPRESSED IN
INDIA, HOW MUCH GIRLS ARE MADE
TO BEAR A SENSE OF SHAME WHEN
THEY'RE RAPED TO THE O DEGREE
THAT THEY DON'T EVEN REPORT THE
RAP,ES A SENSE OF COMPLETE
FRUSTRATION AT THE LENGTH OF
TIME IT SEEMS TO BE TAKING, NOT
JUST IN INDIA BUT AROUND THE
WORLD, REALLY, TO DEAL WITH THE
ISSUE OF GENDER INEQUALITY AND
THE FRUSTRATION JUST BOILED OVER
AND PEOPLE CAME OUT ON TO THE
STREETS TO START EXPRESSING
THEIR ANGER AND IT BUILT
MOMENTUM AND WENT ON FOR OVER A
MONTH.
>> Brown: WE JUST HEARD IN
SHORT CLIPS FROM THE FILM.
WERE YOU SURPRISED WHEN YOU
HEARD THE WORDS COMING FROM THE
DEFENDANT AND FROM THE LAWYERS,
THEIR ATTITUDES?
>> I'M RATHER SAD TO SAY I
WASN'T SURPRISED AND IT'S RATHER
A SURPRISE TO ME THAT, YOU KNOW,
THE GOVERNMENT SEEMS TO BE SO
CONCERNED ABOUT THE INCENDIARY
NATURE TO HAVE THE THINGS THAT
THE RAPE -- NATURE OF THE THINGS
THAT THE RAPIST SAYS IN THIS
DOCUMENTARY BECAUSE POLITICIANS
IN INDIA HAVE BEEN SAYING THINGS
EQUALLY AS INFLAMMATORY AND
MISOGYNISTIC.
IT'S A REAL REFLECTION OF WHAT
SOCIETY THINKS AND, YOU KNOW, IN
A SENSE, THERE'S NOTHING
SURPRISING ABOUT THOSE COMMENTS.
THIS IS A SOCIETY THAT TREATS
GIRLS AS UNEQUAL FROM THE DAY
THEY ARE BORN, IT TREATS THEM AS
UNWELL COME WHEN THEY ARE --
UNWELCOME WHEN THEY ARE BORN.
SWEETS ARE DISTRIBUTED AT THE
CELEBRATION OF A BOIL ONLY, AND
A GIRL IS A DISAPPOINTMENT AND,
FROM THAT MOMENT IN HER LIFE
ONWARD, HE CONTINUES TO BE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, HER VALUE
IS FAR, FAR LESS THAN THAT OF A
BOY, AND, OF COURSE, YOU WILL
END UP WITH A SOCIETY IN WHICH
MEN THINK THEY CAN DO WHAT THEY
LIKE WITH WOMEN BECAUSE THEY
HAVE NO WORTH.
>> Brown: WELL, LET ME IS ASK
YOU AND THE BAN.
YAIND'S HOME MINISTER TOLD
PARLIAMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT
WOULD NOT ALLOW ANY ORGANIZATION
TO LEVERAGE SUMP AN INCIDENT AND
USE IT FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
THERE'S ALSO BEEN PUSHBACK IN
INDIA EVEN FROM SOME WOMEN'S
GROUP ABOUT THE NOTION OF ANER,G
THE STORY THAT THEY SAY THEY
ALREADY KNOW.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS BEHIND THE
BAN?
>> FIRST OF ALL, AS FAR AS
COMMERCIAL USE, THIS IS AN
ABSOLUTE NONSENSE.
I MADE THIS FILM AS A WORK OF
PASSION, A LABOR OF LOVE BECAUSE
I CARE GREATLY ABOUT THIS ISSUE
AND I WANT TO MOVE THE DEBATE
AND THE CONVERSATION FORWARD.
I WANT TO HELP CIVIL SOCIETY
DEMAND, AT LONG LAST, THAT WE
DEAL WITH THIS I BELIEVE THE
GREATEST UNFINISHED BUSINESS OF
OUR TIME, THE INEQUALITY OF
WOMEN.
SO THIS IS NOT A COMMERCIAL
ENTERPRISE.
I AM STILL TODAY CARRYING A
MASSIVE ARSENAL OF DEBT IN
MAKING THIS FILM.
THE OTHER THING YOU ASKED WAS
WHY WOMEN'S GROUPS SEEM TO BE
COMING OUT AND SAYING THAT A
FOREIGNER SHOULD NOT BE MAKING
THIS FILM.
I WOULD SAY IT'S VERY, VERY
HARD, THE FRUSTRATION THAT
WOMEN'S GROUPS FEEL WHEN THEY
HAVE BEEN WORKING FOR
GENERATIONS, FOR DECADES TRYING
TO MOVE THIS ISSUE FORWARD, IT'S
KIND OF TOUGH TO SUDDENLY SEE A
DOCUMENTARY COME AND BE
MASSIVELY IN THE PUBLIC EYE, IN
THE SPOTLIGHT, IT'S HARD TO
EMBRACE THAT AND SAY, YOU KNOW,
WE MAY HAVE WISHED IT WAS AN
INDIAN FILMMAKER MAKING THIS,
BUT WHAT SHE'S SAYING IS EXACTLY
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SAYING FOR
DECADES AND WE SHOULD
NONETHELESS JOIN HANDS, JOIN
FORCES, THAT'S WHAT I WOULD HAVE
HOPED TO HAVE SEEN.
BUT I CAN UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
WILL BE FACTIONS, THAT THERE
WILL BE SOME PEOPLE WHO THINK I
OUGHT TO HAVE FEATURED THEM MORE
IN THE DOCUMENTARY, I THINK
THAT'S WHAT'S AT THE BASE OF
THIS, BUT I HAVE TO SAY ATHAS A
FILMMAKER I CANNOT BE AN
AMBASSADOR FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS
GROUPS, I'M NOT THERE TO
ACTUALLY TELL THE HISTORY OF THE
WOMEN'S STRUGGLE IN INDIA.
>> Brown: THE FILM "INDIA'S
DAUGHTER," LESLIE ODWIN, THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US, WE'LL
BE BACK WITH A LOOK AT ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT WRITTEN
RECORDS IN THE WORLD.
BUT FIRST, IT'S PLEDGE WEEK ON
P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: IT'S AN ENORMOUS
AND HUGELY IMPORTANT WRITTEN
RECORD OF AFRICAN AND ISLAMIC
HISTORY, THREATENED REPEATEDLY
BY WAR, TIME AND THE ELEMENTS.
IN THE SECOND OF HIS REPORTS
ABOUT "CULTURE AT RISK" FROM THE
AFRICAN NATION OF MALI, JEFFREY
BROWN LOOKS AT THE EFFORT TO
SAVE THE FAMED MANUSCRIPTS OF
TIMBUKTU.
>> Brow ANn: HISTORIC MOSQUE
IN TIMBUKTU ON THE EVER SAHARA
DESERT IN MALI, NORTH AFRICA.
TIMBUKTU REMAINS TRAUMATIZED
AFTER AN OPERATION IN 2012 OF
ISLAMIC MILITANTS TIED TO
AL QUAIDA.
THEY WERE DRIVEN OUT BUT THE
JIHADISTS CONTINUE TO THREATEN
THE AREA, THE LATEST TWIST OF
THE STORY IDEA HISTORY OF THIS
CITY.
FOR A LONG TIME, TIMBUKTU WAS
THOUGHT TO BE THE ENDS TO HAVE
EARTH, A FABLED CITY OF GOLD
MADE WEALTHY FROM CARAVANS.
LESS WELL KNOWN IS THIS WAS LONG
A PLACE OF SCHOLARSHIP AND
LEARNING.
BUT THAT LEGACY NOW LIVES IN
MALI'S CAPITAL O BAMAKO.
THESE MANUSCRIPTS BETWEEN THE
13th AND 15th CENTURIES,
ARABIC WRITINGS, COLLECTIVELY A
PRICELESS RECORD OF ISLAMIC AND
AFRICAN HISTORY FROM THE TIME
TIMBUKTU WAS HOME TO A MAJOR
UNIVERSITY AND A CENTER OF
LEARNING.
>> ME, I'M THE GUARDIAN OF THE
MAMANUSCRIPTS.
I LOVE THEM ALL.
>> LIKE CHILDREN.
>> Brown: TIMBUKTU NATIVE
DOCTOR WHOSE FAMILYAS H OWNED
THEM FOR GENERATIONS IS NOW THE
COCUSTODIAN OF THE ENTIRE
COLLECTION.
>> THEY ARE VERY IMPORTANT AND
COULD HELP THE WORLD SOLVE A LOT
OF PROBLEMS.
>> Brown: WHEN JIHADISTS SET
ABOUT TO A DESTROY MANY TIMBUKTU
TREASURES, HE SMUGGLED THE
MAJORITY OF MANUSCRIPTS
400 MILES BY LAND AND BOAT TO
SAFETY IN BAMAKO.
THIS WAS DANROUSGE, RIGHT?
>> AT THE TIME, IT WAS DANGEROUS
BECAUSE IN THE NORTH, THERE WERE
PROBLEMS.
THERE WERE JIHADISTS, REBELS AND
IN THE SOUTH A CREW DETA.
SO IT WAS VERY DANGEROUS
THROUGHOUT MALI AT THE TIME.
>> Brown: 10,000 MANUSCRIPTS
REMAINED IN A LARGE LIBRARY
BUILT IN 2009 WHO HOUSED AND
STUED THEM.
SOME BURNED BY THE REBELS IN A
FINAL ACT OF BARBARISM AND TWO
YEARS LATER THE CHARRED PAGES
REMAIN.
LUCKILY, THOUGH, THE JIHADISTS
NEVER LOOKED IN THE BASEMENT
WHERE THE MOST VALUABLE
MANUSCRIPTS WERE HIDDEN.
>> YOU HAVE MORE THAN 10,000
MANUSCRIPTS INSIDE.
>> SO 10,000 AND THEY DIDN'T
TOUCH THEM?
>> THEY DIDN'T TOUCH THEM.
>> Brown: WRITTEN ON
PARCHMENT, THE MANUSCRIPTS ARE
FRAGILE.
THE WORST ENEMY NOW IS THE
HUMIDITY.
THE PROCESS TO RESTORE INIOLVES
CAREFUL CLEANING AND PLACEMENT
IN AS ID-FREE, SPECIALLY-CRAFTED
BOX.
PAGE BY PAGE THE TEAM IS ALSO
CREATING A DIGITAL INVENTORY,
THE GOAL TO SAVE THE MANUSCRIPTS
AND ALLOW EAGER SCHOLARS AROUND
THE WORLD TO STUDY THIS WEALTH
OF MATERIAL.
JURISPRUDENCE.
A 19th CENTURY OF WORK WAS
CITED ABOUT RELIGIOUS TOLERANCE
AS AN EXAMPLE OF SOMETHING THAT
COULD HAVE AN IMPACT TODAY.
>> TODAY WE HAVE A LOT OF
PROBLEMS, A LOT.
SO, IN MY OPINION, IF WE TAKE
OUT THESE MANUSCRIPTS, THE ONES
ABOUT GOOD GOVERNANCE AND
TRANSLATE THEM, DEVELOP THEM,
PUBLICIZE THEM, I THINK THAT
WOULD HELP US WITH TODAY'S
REALITY.
>> Brown: THE MANUSCRIPT
PROJECT, IN FACT, IS JUST PART
OF LARGER EFFORT TO REVIVE
TIMBUKTU AND ITS PEOPLE.
>> SOME PEOPLE SAY EVERYWHERE
YOU GO IN THE WORLD, WHEN YOU
ARE A NATIVE OF TIMBUKTU, YOU
ALWAYS COME BACK.
>> Brown: H HE IS A BLOGGER
AND JOURNALISTS WHO STAYED IN
HIS HOMETOWN AND SAYS TIMBUKTU
FOR HIM IS A BEGINNING, ONE THAT
CAN HAVE A VIBRANT FUTURE.
>> A MELTING POT WHERE YOU CAN
FIND ALL DIFFERENT ETHNIC LIVING
TOGETHER.
>> Brown: TIMBUKTU MIGHT
BECOME A CROSSROADS AGAIN.
THE U.N.'S CULTURAL AGENCY IS
RECONSTRUCTING SACRED TOOMBS
SMASHED TO PIECES BY JIHADISTS.
AND, AS UNLIKELY AS IT SEEMS
NOW, THERE ARE PLANS TO BUILD A
NEW UNIVERSITY IN THE DESERT AND
AN INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVE
CALLED THE TIMBUKTU RENAISSANCE
IS RAISING AWARENESS OF THE
CITY'S PLIGHT THROUGH MUSIC AND
CULTURAL EVENTS.
THIS IS MALI'S CULTURAL
MINISTER.
>> ALL MALIENS ARE COUNTING ON
CULTURE TO BE AN IMPORTANT ROLE
IN THE PEACE PROCESS.
MALI IS POOR WHEN IT COMES TO
THE BUDGET BUT WHEN IT COMES TO
CULTURE AND DIGNITY, MALI IS A
VERY RICH COUNTRY.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: THE NIGHTINGALE OF
THE DESERT IS A MUSICIAN WHO
FACED DEATH THREATS IN TIMBUKTU
AND FLED TO BAMAKO WITH HER
FAMILY.
SHE HOPES THE RETURN SOON, SHE
TOLD US.
FROM NOW FROM HER ROOFTOP, SHE
SANG A TRADITIONAL TIMBUKTU
SONG,
CELEBRATION OF HER HOMELAND.
FROM MALLEE, I'M JEFFREY BROWN
FROM THE PBS "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
HILLARY CLINTON CONCEDED SHE
SHOULD HAVE USED OFFICIAL E-MAIL
AS SECRETARY OF STATE.
SHE ALSO ACKNOWLEDGED DESTROYING
THOUSANDS OF PERSONAL E-MAILS,
BUT INSISTED SHE DID NOTHING
WRONG.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS FELL 330
POINTS OVER WORRIES THAT
INTEREST RATES ARE GOING UP.
SENATE REPUBLICANS DEFENDED
THEIR WARNING TO IRAN THAT ANY
NUCLEAR DEAL NEEDS CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL.
AND A LOS ANGELES JURY FOUND
MUSICIANS ROBIN THICKE AND
PHARRELL WILLIAMS COPIED THE
LATE MARVIN GAYE'S MUSIC FOR THE
2013 HIT "BLURRED LINES."
THEY AWARDED GAYE'S HEIRS $7.4
MILLION.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, WE'VE
COLLECTED ALL OF SCIENCE
CORRESPONDENT MILES O'BRIEN'S
REPORTS ON CUTTING EDGE
TECHNOLOGY FOR ROBOTIC ARMS.
TONIGHT, CNN WILL AIR A ONE HOUR
SPECIAL ON MILES, CHRONICLING
THE YEAR FOLLOWING THE ACCIDENT
THAT LED TO THE AMPUTATION OF
HIS LEFT ARM.
FIND THE POWERFUL STORIES HE DID
FOR US, ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
LATEST FIGHT OVER COMMON CORE,
AND WHY A GROWING NUMBER OF
STUDENTS ARE OPTING OUT OF THE
REQUIRED TESTS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.